### Lex

Lex is a computer program that generates lexical analyzers. Lex reads an input stream specifying the lexical analyzer and outputs source code implementing the lexer in the C programming language.

### Flex

FLEX (fast lexical analyzer generator) is a tool/computer program for generating lexical analyzers (scanners or lexers) written by Vern Paxson in C around 1987. It is used together with Berkeley Yacc parser generator or GNU Bison parser generator. Flex and Bison both are more flexible than Lex and Yacc and produces faster code.
Bison produces parser from the input file provided by the user. The function `yylex()` is automatically generated by the flex when it is provided with a `.l` file and this `yylex()` function is expected by parser to call to retrieve tokens from current/this token stream.

Note: The function `yylex()` is the main flex function that runs the Rule Section and extension `(.l)` is the extension used to save the programs.

#### Installing flex

- On ubuntu

```console
    sudo apt-get update
```

```console
    sudo apt-get install flex
```

- On void linux

```console
    sudo xbps-install flex
```

#### Executing flex program

- Save the file with the extension `.l` or `.lex`

- To generate the C source file from the Flex program, run the following command:

  ```console
  flex file_name.l
  ```

- This will generate a file named `lex.yy.c` in the same directory. Next, compile the C source file using the following command:

  ```console
  gcc lex.yy.c -o output_file_name -lfl
  ```

- This command will produce an executable called `output_file_name` in the current directory. Finally, you can run the program by executing the following command:

  ```console
  ./output_file_name
  ```

- Provide the input to program in case it is required
